It's Office Hours. With me. It's Office Hours with Chris. Right now. This moment? And Chase.
Hi. Hey Chasey. You just drugged me in here. I was trying to clean out all the trash cans
around the office and you're like, hey, why don't you come here? Did you know in Japanese culture,
the youngest office employee comes in early to clean out the trash every day and clean up the
office and make coffee? Did you know that's a real thing? And they don't really do janitorial
services much? I did not, but that makes sense. But it wouldn't, you're not our newest hire though,
so it wouldn't be you, would it? No, not technically, but Drew said he wouldn't do it,
so I'm just taking on the duties, man. You know what I'm thinking? What's that? What are you
thinking? I'm thinking next week, I'm going to do the whole week from Eastern Washington,
except for Tuesday. Oh yeah? Yeah, I'm thinking like, just try to like get a little bit of summer
left here on the West coast of Washington. It is nothing but rain now, but I'm thinking if I cross
the mountains, it's still above mid seventies over there. I could probably eke out like another week
of summer. So where would you go then on that side of the state? Like what would be the destination?
Oh, I got a place. I got a place. Yeah, I got a really good place. You know, I found this spot
not too long ago that is on the Methow River and it's got full signal, which is hard to get in that
area of Eastern Washington. It's got full signal. It's about a two hour and 45 minute drive from the
studio. That sounds like a no brainer then. Yeah. Oh, that's going to be so good. It's going to be
so good. I hope it works out. We'll see. I'm going to come in a couple of times a week to do shows
and then like all of like the pre show work and research and all of the office stuff I have to do,
I'm going to do from my spot on the river. I'll see. That would be rad, dude. I know.
We'll see how it goes. I don't know. I just, I have to like, I have to do something because
it's a six days a week kind of job, often seven days a week kind of job.
So I never, I never, I never get to like take advantage of all of the vacation I bank.
Now as an actual employee, I could be banking vacation. I never get it. I never get to take
advantage of it. So I thought, well, what I'll do is I'll just work. I'll spend a work week
minus a few days from the river. Yeah. I mean, that sounds like a rational decision,
you know, and I've always personally been one of those people that always struggle to take my
vacation time off anyway, just getting out of the office and, you know, not being needed.
And, and I'm sure obviously you have, you suffer from that same problem even more so than I do,
but I know a lot of us here at the network, uh, it really is kind of a seven day a week type of
job. I mean, it's just, um, we don't disconnect from telegram or IRC or, uh, Twitter or any of
the other social avenues. We're always following the news. We're always checking the news multiple
times a day. And that goes for like every single person that's here, uh, working with us. And I,
I think that shows, uh, to some extent and allows us to do what we do.
But, uh, yeah, sometimes just flipping that switch and disconnecting at all can definitely
be a thing. So this is the, this is the second office hours with Chris. Um, I just think I
thought maybe from time to time I do this and answer some questions. So I'm doing this one
live because why not? And we got the whole like IRC thing going and bite bitten has a question.
He says, uh, what is an idea you really wanted to do, but we're not allowed to, well,
so not allowed to is not really, I mean, I guess that depends on what you define as allowed,
uh, not allowed to right now is I'm not able, there's not enough time in the day, uh, or there's
not enough money. And that's essentially what, uh, doesn't enable me to do something that I want
to do. Those, that's where my limitations are right now. And it turns out you run into those
a lot. So I'll, I'll give you an example. Um, every guest you hear on the show, if I, if I had
a magic wand and, um, an unlimited budget, I suppose I would do each one of those interviews
in person. Any interview that you hear remotely, I would, I would love to be able to do in person.
I wish I could, I wish I could visit the team more often. I wish I could spend a week at
Cheez's location. I wish I could spend a week near Drew. I wish I could spend a week in London.
Uh, I wish I could go down to Elle's community and, uh, just spend a time with her,
just spend a little bit of time with her tribe. I, I really wish I could always be on the move
constantly. Um, but budget constraints and the fact that I'm a human seem to be the limiting
factor. Yeah. That can definitely limit, limit you, uh, just your ability to not clone yourself,
not be able to clone yourself and be everywhere at once. Damn, damn body, you know? Yeah. Stupid
bodies, stupid meat bags. Um, you know, for me, something I wasn't allowed to do. Um, have I ever
said no too much? An idea. Well, I mean, for me, you know, well, I'm thinking like a little more
broad than that, right? Like for me, um, I had an idea to throw a party at my house and my parents
weren't there, but I wasn't allowed to. It doesn't mean I didn't do it anyway, but, you know, I'm
just trying to reach here for, for some things that I was maybe not allowed to do. Oh, like an
old story. Well, I mean, by its, by its question is a little vague, so I'm just trying to throw
another side in there of it. I think the most like break the rules thing that I did is I drove
a lot before I had my license. Yeah, but I mean, you didn't get caught, right? Not by a cop. I didn't
get caught by my dad, but I never got caught by a cop, but I very early took to it to driving. Like
I just, to me, it was something about it. I think, I think there are personality types that get a
kind of soothing and exhilaration from driving that other personality types don't. And I think
people that have their crap together better than me are the people that don't. Um, for me, driving
is always a drive. It's always a drive. It's never just a drive. It's a drive. And so I, I want to
enjoy the drive. I'm not doing it to just drive. I'm not, I don't want to go from point A to point
B. I want, I want to enjoy the process. I want to every now and then have a thrill. I want to take a
corner. I want to, I want to downshift when I'm, when I, when I'm slowing down. Like there's things
I just, I want to do that keep me focused, that keep me aware, that keep me really kind of in the
moment. And if it's a basic kind of boring, kind of just do nothing, sit there, twiddle your thumbs
kind of drive. I get distracted and I feel like I'm not as safe as a driver, not a, not a safe
driver and not a focused driver. Not that I've really ever had any problems, but I kind of feel
like when I'm, when I'm pushing a little bit, when I'm experiencing the drive, I'm actually more
dialed in. I'm more focused. Yeah. I mean, I could see that being, um, being in the, in the car for
the drive for, uh, not really just to get from one destination to the other, but to actually enjoy the
ride. It depends for me. Um, sometimes I do. And sometimes it's very much a, let me just get to
where I need to be because there are too many idiots on the road. Have you, have you listened
to the recent, uh, brunch with Brent? I know as we recorded, it just came out this morning. So
yeah, there's something in there where Brent's talking about, um, how like you might go on a
walk or something around your town, or maybe you have like a route you take when you drive,
you know, you got like a, you're going to go to the stores, you take your, you figured out the
most efficient route that has the least amounts of things that piss you off and you just get there
right away. And that's great, except for a lot of times it means you don't just take the one street
over. Oh, absolutely. For me, that's, that's definitely the case. I have a route that I take
to the grocery store, which goes along the side of a feeder road next to interstate 10. Um, and then
back up the other side of the feeder road when I could just get on the main street and go through
town. But that requires me to sit at every stoplight and it's a little less of a drive, but
sure. But you also, but I mean, there's something about living in an area and always taking the same
route over and over again. And then one day just taking a slightly different route. Um, here where
I'm at, I have three different routes I can take to get to the junkyard, which is what I affectionately
call the barnyard that I parked the RV at. And, um, I always take the interstate, you know,
the most basic straight 70 miles per hour route. But there is one route that is an old highway
that was built before there were interstates. So it's, it's, um, it's a little retro, but it's
beautiful. And it's like the perfect example when you're in the Pacific Northwest of each season,
because you're driving through trees and you're driving through farmland and it's near the coast.
So you really get the full flavor of the season and I never take it because it's another 15 minutes.
Yeah. But I'm sure sometimes you want to take that route just because it is an extra 15 minutes. And
maybe every now and then you want to work through something in your head, you know, as you're
driving and like, like you said, you know, you, you gain a level of concentration on what you're
doing, almost a precise level of focus that you can then take from that moment in time when you
step out of your car to kind of carry that, but on a different topic. Yeah. For me, like a really
good drive is like a really good shower. Like I have the same kind of shower thoughts in a,
in a really good drive. Do you ever have that? Absolutely. Um, I think you have a little bit
more of an advantage though, because you have the beautiful Pacific Northwest and all these super
awesome windy, uh, roads that are worth driving where I literally have nothing but flat, flat
roads around here. That's it. There's six different ways to get to the store, but they're all equally
as flat and equally as straight. So yeah. Yeah. I've definitely noticed that in your neck of
the woods. I've definitely noticed that down there. Uh, whereas like here it's like carved out of the
sides of a hill and you get these switchbacks and these nice, you know, curves and yeah,
you can downshift and kind of get into it and, you know, push out of the corners and stuff
like that. We don't have that here, dude. Nothing at all. You know, all we have is a bunch of
frustrated people on like a, you know, eight lane highway that are all trying to get somewhere
way too quick while being preoccupied with a cell phone in their hand. Of course,
you know, I have a little bit of a road envy after spending some time with Alex. Oh, I bet
you guys did the dragon's tail and all that, man. That's great. Yeah. We, we, uh, uh, I,
so, um, I recently, I mean, talk about an opportunity. I got to fly down to, uh,
Raleigh, North Carolina, where Alex and his wonderful wife picked me up from the airport.
Raleigh's has a RDU. That's the airport. Great, great size. It's, it's smaller than SeaTac,
which is my local airport, but it's still like an international like hub. So you can get anywhere.
It's cleaner than Boston. Oh, cleaner, simpler, everything. Nice. Everything. So Alex and his
wonderful wife, they pick me up right there from the airport. They take me out. They get me some
North Carolina barbecue the first night I'm in town. And then they have a guest room. They set
me up in, which is fantastic because a it's a place to sleep and be Alex has gigabit internet.
Oh, that's wonderful. Right. I can't complain about that. Um, and then he picked a route to
get us down to Lexington, Kentucky, which is where a Wendell Wilson of level one Texas from,
he had this, he had a route. I really appreciate this about Alex because he didn't check with me,
but he, he knew me well enough to know that it's okay to take an extra hour or two here and there
for a great drive, you know, for that scenic switchback drive. Yes. Yeah. He picked a few routes
that were, were wonderful. Um, I don't think he'd mind if I share this story. There is the
dragon's trail, which you just mentioned or dragons, uh, or it might be actually the tail
of the dragon. I don't, I think that's what it technically is. I think it's technically the tail
of the dragon. Yeah. It's, it's, um, it's a really well known road for, uh, just all the different
like switchbacks, like you were saying and, and hills and turns and curves. Uh, it's, it's where
bikers re they really try to get their credibility. And there's even a biker bar where there's a tree
of shame where bikers that have tried to take the dragon's tail on have crashed. Ooh. And so they
will go pick up some of the parts and hang it from the tree of shame. That's so sad. Well, so Alex,
uh, Alex, Alex likes, Alex likes to drive and, uh, Alex has driven this road before.
And, uh, I discovered things that I did not know were possible in a car. I thought you'd have to
have a bike to do some of the things that Alex pulled off. Um, he is a, let me just say this,
he is a great driver. And I had a thought in the evening after what was quite the experience,
I reviewed back, like all of the moments where we were going around a curved corner or, or a switch
back that was unbelievably tight, or we came right up on a crowd or all of these moments that happened
while we were going down this road. And I thought back on all of them. I thought, you know, there
was not a single moment where I thought, oh, this is going to be a problem. Yeah. Well, I would
s-suspect that Alex would be a pretty good driver and I've ridden with him a few times. So, I mean,
I know that he is a good driver. Um, and I know that he also has gone on the track a few times
for some track days in some different vehicles. So, I mean, he's, he's definitely, uh, he's a
really talented at that. But I wonder too, if because he learned to drive in the UK, uh, if he
doesn't have a different, a different type of, uh, way of driving, driving style. I mean, every road
there is tiny, right? Every road is right. One of those things where, yeah, you're going to have like
a 90 left, you know, and you're just going to have to make it go in, you know, whatever,
25 miles an hour. It was like he and I had the same exact programming for driving style.
He drove exactly like I drive and I drive exactly like he drives. And what's also very funny about
that is we both have the same car so we can swap driving and we are both completely comfortable.
In fact, on a road trip with Alex, it's great because one morning I'm, I'm up early,
I'm going out to the car, right? And I got all my luggage, right? And I got Alex's keys and I'm
walking up to the car and I think to myself, how nice is it that I know exactly what buttons to
push on this remote to open his trunk. I know where my bag fits. I know exactly what fits in
the door cupboard. I know everything about this car. It's a zero stress situation for me. And so
when we traded off driving, we both just, we have the same exact driving style and we have the same
exact car. His is just a lot more powerful than mine because he, he bought a used a golf GTI
that has a whole after a market or like intakes and souped up a little bit, different exhaust,
different programming on the computer. Yeah. So it is, it is a lot more powerful,
more powerful, but it is the same exact car. And so that was really cool because not only do we
drive the same way, but we actually have the same car. So he's doing things and I'm like, oh,
my car can do this. Oh, that's good to know. Well, and what's really cool about you guys
having the same car is that like you said, you can anticipate the way the car is going to react,
right? Let's say, let's say if you had had the charger that poppy and wimpy had whenever they
came up for Linux Fest Northwest and that was your daily commuter and then you got behind the wheel
of the GTI or vice versa, you know, you're behind, let's say Alex had a charger and you're behind
that doing the tail of the dragon, maybe not realizing where you put down too much power,
where you slide the, you know, the, the tail into the car out and you end up with parts on the the
tree of shame. Sure. It's something. It is what I what I learned is that car cars and technology
have advanced from what I understand cars are capable of. But, you know, it that was a great
experience because it was a couple of days on the road with Alex. And we were just we were just
talking about the show the whole time. You know, we got to go down and meet Wendell and saw his
whole studio. We did the meetup in Lexington, which was awesome. And I kind of had a realization
that I felt like this would probably be the show today that I would launch if I was just starting
podcasting. Oh, yeah. I mean, I love, you know, before it was level one, it was Tech Syndicate,
or Wendell was that was there with Tech Syndicate. And then now it's level one. But
I've always been a huge fan of Wendell. And he's he's like a walking encyclopedia of hardware
knowledge and really beyond that. But I mean, you could just ask that guy any question and he's
going to have a response for you. And if he doesn't, he'll be like, well, let's go put it
together and see what it does right now. Yeah, he's a he's a really neat dude. I'm pretty jealous
that I didn't get a chance to go hang with you guys. But I have I have faith that maybe, you
know, we can convince Wendell to come up during Linux Fest Northwest next year or something. That
would be great. Yeah, it'd be cool if we could get him in a JB talk room. Just kind of, you know,
going off on on what he's doing, even. That's a great differences in hardware. I think it would
be cool to maybe rope him in there, too, because he's such a cool dude. And he seems like he'd be
a really nice guy just to hang out with and have a drink and share a meal with, too. Yeah. Well,
as we did. Yeah, it was really nice because he's even nicer than he seems on YouTube. And he's
even smarter than he comes across on YouTube. And the other thing that I really respected about him
after meeting him is he is he is really about craftsmanship, like what he focuses his attention
on. He really he cares about the craftsmanship of the work. And boy, do I respect that because,
you know, that's how the whole team is here. And like, I get that about him. And I think we'll
probably work with him in the future. I think there's probably areas we can work in the future,
because, you know, sometimes you meet you meet people online and they turn out to be kind of
not really what they pitch themselves as to be online. You know, absolutely. He was the opposite.
He was even better than he he claims to be online. Like he he backs it up with you. He's even more
legitimate in person than he seems to be on YouTube. Well, that's that's good to know, man.
I'm really excited about Self-Hosted. I think it's a great show. So much of my free time these days
is spent working on these kinds of things. Like this last weekend,
this last weekend, I set up a Raspberry Pi four in my RV on the land. And because, you know,
in the RV, you want something low power. Absolutely. You might be running off of batteries
sometime and you don't want something that makes a lot of fan noise because RVs are small and you
can basically hear it everywhere in the RV when it's a loud noise. I figured that one out. I got
a system one time I had a system in there. I had a QNAP NAS and it was like low fan noise. I'm like,
great. Doesn't make much fan noise in my testing here in the studio. What I didn't appreciate was
how much damn noise the hard drives just made. Oh, yeah. Whining sitting there spinning because
they were spinning rust, right? So, yeah, noise is a big thing in the RV. Plus, you don't want to
use up a bunch of power because you're often running off of battery when you're traveling.
And so if you're if you're sending a bunch of power to some server systems, well, that's less
power to run your television or your fridge or lights or heat. So it really is a big, big
consideration. So something low power was important. And so the Raspberry Pi worked
pretty well in that scenario. And I wasn't sure if the Pi four would be powerful enough to do
everything I wanted to do. But so far, it's really gotten there. So over the weekend,
I set up Home Assistant again for like the third time. But this time, I think I finally have the
final setup. I set up Smokeping, which is super hard to set up as a standalone application. But
if you put it in a Docker image, it's not so bad. You just go ahead like the Linux over I.O. guys
have a Smokeping Docker image that really makes it easy. And that gives me great data on how my ISP
is performing. Right. Right. I installed DD Client, which updates DNS when my IP changes.
Duplicati, which backs up my Docker configurations to Google Drive and it's encrypted. Rantero or
yeah, I think it's Rantero. I'm not sure how you say it. That's an offline Markdown based notes
system. Yeah. And NetData, which gives you tons of great information all on the Raspberry Pi four,
all on my LAN in the RV. So it's available whenever I'm offline, whenever I'm going down the
road. And I'm considering Plex, too. You know, just setting all this up now, I'll talk about
it more in self-hosted after I have some experience with all of these things. But these are the things
that I just work on because I want to. It's just fun. So self-host is like a perfect show for me
now. Oh, yeah. Well, and I think, you know, and I've mentioned this to you before, you know,
inside the network before I ever mentioned it publicly, but it's very much kind of a throwback
to some of the older J.B. shows in that we've done pretty good at getting the news right.
But the one part is the projects and how to set it up and the knowledge of I've failed so many
times doing it this way. I would suggest you try it this way, sort of project based show.
And I think a lot of people are going to enjoy it. I know I've been privy to listen to the first
couple already. I thoroughly enjoy them. I think, you know, with you, obviously, with that new Pi
four and wrapping all this up, which I think is such a cool idea, because obviously, yeah,
you do want a super low power machine in your RV. You want something that runs pretty silently
because you are going to hear it if you're in the bathroom or, you know, at the other end of the RV
or something like that. What I'm curious, though, is on the setup, are you running your Pi with a
fan or in a case with a fan? Or are you just running it with heat sinks on it? I have not
totally sure what my final solution is. But what my current solution is, is I have it running in the
Pi four case that you get when you buy it as a desktop kit. But I left the I left the top off.
I left the top off for cooling. Yeah, and that's what I do as well. Because once you close the top
on that thing, it heats up quick. And that's just on my Pi three. Yeah, I can only imagine what that
is on the Pi four, especially if you ran it, let it run with a load with it all closed up like that.
I would not doubt that you would see some sort of a warping on the bottom of the case after,
you know, a month's time running it hard like that. Yeah, a little brown spot or a little
divot where, you know, it's heated up right underneath the CPU a little bit.
And I'm a junkie when it comes to single board computers, man, I have so many around here.
I don't really use them as much as I previously did, because I've, you know, kind of merged a lot
of that stuff into the cloud. Really only because my home internet can be flaky at times. So I wanted
something that was reliable whenever I was outside of my network. But now seeing you guys do all of
this stuff with with Home Assistant and smoke ping, I've never used it sounds awesome. The offline
markdown editor, that's freaking great, especially if I could sync that up later on. And it's just
notes for like me and the wife about things about the RV or warranty information or service
information list or whatever. Yeah, man, absolutely. You know, and then you can pull that note down on
your phone and go to go to wherever go to the grocery store and, you know, tick those little
boxes in your markdown and your offline markdown. I see how that would be super awesome.
So that's been really cool. The other thing that I haven't cracked yet,
is I feel like the Raspberry Pi four is kind of with Home Assistant, smoke ping and DD clients
and duplicati and Ontario and net data and a little bit of plaques. I kind of feel like one
Raspberry Pi four is probably maxed out because if any one of those goes crazy, then all of the
other services suffer. So I'm thinking like, maybe when I want to do like really CPU intensive stuff
in the future, I just I just add another pie. And it doesn't all have to be a pie for like,
I'm thinking about Shinobi. And one of the things I want to do with Shinobi, which is a
a CT a CCTV DVR type software. So if you have a bunch of cameras, and you don't want to have them
store their footage in the cloud, you can use something like Shinobi to pull it all in and
and give you a web UI to review and all that. And I feel like Shinobi would be perfect for
three or four cameras in the RV that I don't I don't want to use up like a my fight connection
to upload to a cloud storage, but I want to have something in case when we're parked somewhere,
somebody breaks in and does something. I want to have something, but it probably needs a whole
new pie, right? I think if you're putting plex on top of what you've already stacked on there,
if you're expecting plex to do the transcoding and stuff, that's going to be a little bit of
a struggle with the current stack and plex on top of that. But if you were to say, just toss in
Shinobi on top of that, I think Shinobi would run fine on your current stack. Because it really is
it doesn't have there's not a ton of overhead with it. And it just pulls in the RTSP streams.
So you're really just kind of gatewaying your video through a web interface, right? So it's
not like it's retranscoding. And, you know, you can start and stop recording there. I've personally
set it up and had it running on a pie for about, well, since we started talking about talking about
it, I guess it's been a month and a half or so ago, maybe two months now. And I've got two cameras,
I've got a Fox cam running on it. And I've got one of the wise cams running on it. And I'm just
pulling the RTSP streams in from that. Did you do that? So you did the custom firmware then on the
wise cam? Yes. Yeah, I'm going to be talking about that in self hosted too. And that's it's super,
super advisable to do that, in my opinion, because you don't really lose any functionality,
which I think is important. So this is something I'll be talking about more. Because I also I think
I want to connect my dash cam to Shinobi. That would be great, right? Why not? Well, and then
realistically, if you're traveling down the road, you could have that stream being pushed to Shinobi.
And then if Adia was in the back of the RV taking a nap. And you know, she could pull it up on her
phone. You're right. Or if she's like chasing me in her car, if she's like, for some reason,
we want to take like the RV, and sometimes she'll follow me in her car for going to somewhere nearby,
right? She could pull it up. Absolutely. And then she could see what's going on in the dash cam while
she's, you know, behind you in the chase vehicle or whatever. This is why I feel like self hosted
would be the show I would launch today. But this is where really my mind's at. And what's so great
about it is it leverages free software. And the stack that I'm using for this is often all like
container based and the storages and ZFS or some other kind of like Linux open source stack that
I have to use like it all is open source and free software and the Linux stack. But it's to do things
that are just so freaking cool that you would normally pay the cloud provider XYZ to do and
now you can do it yourself. Absolutely. And I think that's part of, for me, that's whenever
I got into Linux that that level of experimentation and learning and getting really getting your hands
dirty. And then, you know, obviously that evolves into, you know, these and configuring, you know,
i3 or Xmonad or trying tiling managers or just using a context system like open box or something,
you know, I mean, it kind of evolves. And for me now where I'm at are these self contained,
isolated instances that I can spin up in no time and then take control of various little aspects
of my day to day life. I don't really want to have my home automation in the cloud, right? I'm not
really a lady tube echo user, right? No, you're not. And I don't have any intention on being one,
but I still want to have some of the services and some of that ease of use in those conveniences,
like being able to turn off my lights while I'm laying in bed because I forgot to turn off the
lights in the kitchen, right? Home Assistant is so great, man. It's so great. It's even getting good
spousal approval right now. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. I gave her there's a home assistant iOS app that
she has on her phone, so she pulls it up and all of the buttons are just right there. And we all
know, you know, how extremely important that is that you get spousal approval on these things,
because if you don't, your projects ain't going to live long. They're going to end up in the closet.
All right. So we got to talk about headlines. I can't think of anything more ambitious that we've
ever done to tell you the truth. A daily show, a daily show on our anniversary week, launching with
another show. It's a wow. You know, it's, it's one of those things that since I've come on board,
we've been talking about, and it's one of those things that before I came on board had been
talked about. People don't, I don't think people understand the level of dedication
and the workflows that you need in place to make something like that happen day in and day out.
And just what it takes to even vet the stories before they ever go out. Right. It's a lot of
work. Yeah. Yeah. I, uh, I'm really glad you're here because I think you're going to help me
kind of catch a couple of things that I might forget because I'm so close to this
that it's easy for me to forget some of the important parts about this because, uh, anybody
that's a parent that's listening to this, I have three children and I, I would equate this to
nearly the level of responsibility of birthing a new child. It is, it is a lifestyle change. It
fundamentally changes every single day of your life, just like having a child does just not quite
nearly, but after three kids, I can tell you very much close to it. Um, this is something that we
have tried to crack for well over a year. It's something that I experimented with a couple of
times at Tech Talk today. I experimented with Jupiter at night. Um, it's been something I have
taken a lot of stabs at and I was beginning to think it would never happen. In fact, I was just
reaching a peace with the idea that it would never happen. Even before the merger, we were
trying to figure out a way to make this happen. And I, I just, we tried internal demos and we
didn't like them and we killed them. But there was a little bit of a factor that I didn't account
for earlier. And that is as the team came together over the last year, we realized that there was
we realized we had a new advantage that we could leverage. We realized we had a new
base, a foundation that we could take advantage of a group effort.
In fact, we even brought a new team member on that is off air that is doing research and fact
checking across not just the headline show, but all of the shows. We realized we could take a much
more holistic approach to this. So we started talking about a team based approach to solving
a daily podcast. And when we got there, we had our breakthrough. When we realized that you could
get the information you need to move on with your day in three minutes or less. That's when
everything changed. So the team effort and the format of how to pull it all off when those two
things came together, that's when we had it. And I think by having someone that can focus on
getting the news and doing the research, obviously that's, that's one thing, but having a team
that really eats, breathes and sleeps Linux and open source all day, you know, and like I mentioned
earlier, it's very much a seven day type of a job, but to some extent it doesn't feel that way
because these are things that I would be doing anyway. But I think it gives us a way that we can
get that news out there to people with Linux headlines, get it to them precisely and condensed
with no analysis, no opinions given. This is the news. You know, another thing that we've really
thought about too, is how to do something that isn't trying to like replicate what radio does,
that isn't just trying to be imitating, but is actually something that is born of the medium
for the medium. And so we have something now that is perfect for RSS distribution,
but it also happens to work perfectly for those flash briefings in the lady tubes and something
that is, it's, it's what you need to know, but it's, it's not anything more than that.
And when you want further analysis, well, we have shows for that already that have been around for
years now, they're established. So it's, it's allowing us to go into areas that maybe we didn't
cover in the shows where everything needs to have a conversation around it. Brent has a question
here. He says, how are you going to balance the daily versus emergencies happening? What are your
details on backups? It seems impossible that you could record pre-record something like this. Yes,
that's Brent of the Brunch with Brent fame. So one of the things that we, we worked out with the
kind of practice sessions that we did is there's backups. So in some days we'll have different
backups. Like if I need to take a day off, Joe could be a backup for me or cheese could be a
backup for me or Wes on a, depending on what the day is. So we have a couple of hot backups
that are available, but so here's how it works is our team member working with all of us that
puts together the links, does a drop at a certain time, Pacific time. That has to be dropped at a
certain time because that's what, that's our go time. So that way we can make it for the
East coast commute. The host that is on point that day has to do a check-in. So they check in and say,
yes, I'm here. They have 15 minutes to check in. If they don't check in, the backup automatically
kicks in and the next host picks up and then checks in and begins working. And that system
kind of gives us both, not only kind of a peace of mind that the show will go on, but also means
that even if something comes up where the host can't pre-arrange an absence for whatever reason,
maybe they're in a car accident, God forbid, or they've, they've somehow ended up on a flight
that was delayed and they can't make it in time for their, for their airtime. We have a system
where a host automatically will kick in, but while things are running just smoothly and everybody
showing up on time and everything's great in the background, guys like cheese are practicing their
reads and they're getting ready to jump in if somebody were not available. So cheese sees the
headlines every single week or actually that's weird. I got to get used to that every single day.
She sees the, I know every day he sees what comes in and he can do a practice read through on his
own. So that way, if one day I got to step out, bacon's ready to go back up bacon. And I think
that that's the way we have to operate with something like this, because obviously we don't
want to let any of the listeners down. We want that to be there for them every single day and
for them to be able to rely on that being there every day. This is I think the best way to accomplish
that. And the thing is, is it's not a really an inconvenience for any of the backups. We're
prepared for that to happen. And if it does, which inevitably it will at some point, we're ready to
step in and test those processes. So I think it's going to be a win-win for everyone. I'm super
excited about it. I get my news from it. A lot of the things that will be covered in those news
topics, if they're worthy, we will definitely bring them into the additional shows for further
analysis. That's how these things operate. So I think you'll see some crossover there,
but you shouldn't get upset if we're maybe a little short with this one news story and don't
mention exactly what you want, because chances are we're going to cover it later in the week,
or deep dive into it, or release something on extras, or we know how important all these things
are to everyone. And we want to make sure that we get that news out there. And we want to make sure
that we get the important news to you factually correct every time. And I think that that's what
we really strive to do. And if you look at us across just any other news broadcast, we really
make an effort to be independent and not judgmental on this project, or that project, or the way that
these things go. We're vetting everything through the team, right? So maybe I have a bias where I
think the Librem 5 doesn't have a good shot, right? But there's other members on the team that do. And
so everything is sort of hashed out. Okay, get ready for it. Crack one open. Here's a deep thought.
You ready for this? Today's headlines, the ones that went out for September 11th, two stories in
that headlines episode would never make it in any of our other shows. Absolutely. Because simply,
the headline was the story. And so there's nothing to discuss. There's no community aspect to it.
So it's not going to go on Linux unplugged. And there's no way that it really like changes the
landscape forever. So it's not going in Linux action news. And those are generally like when
something needs real discussion, you'll hear us talk about it. But things happen like there was a
there was a new raw file editor for Linux like a professional grade. Yeah, raw therapy, a
professional grade, raw photo editor to take raw files right off your camera SD card and edit them
on Linux. That's great. Maybe one day it could possibly maybe potentially could be a pic, maybe
right. Or if Brent does just an all Linux photography software show, that would probably be
on there. And I've personally used raw therapy before. So I hadn't read that headline yet. But
I whenever I listened to the headline show, I was like, Oh, sweet. That's cool. Good to know. I know
it's, it's funny. It's pretty, it's pretty, it's pretty good in that way. Because there's things
as a desktop Linux user or a Linux on the server user where you kind of need to know like when
things change, but they're not newsworthy enough to make it into the other shows. I'm pretty
surprised at how well that's worked so far. It's crazy to do it every day. Having, I guess, for me,
that like the most the most like emotional baggage thing that I attached to this idea is I've done
this myself with tech talk today and it ground me into the ground. And so now I've got a team behind
me. And I feel like we've actually got something to it. So I'm feeling much better today. It was
just a press we record, which is a September 11 2019. It was just approved on the Alexa flash
briefing cancel. So people can get their flash briefing. Yeah, and that's and that's awesome.
Because while I'd like I mentioned earlier, I don't have any echo devices in my house. I know
plenty of people that do. And seriously, man, if I can get my Linux headlines while I'm brushing my
teeth and combing my hair before I step out the door to go to work, and know whenever I get to
work that I need a patch this box because this vulnerabilities out there in the wild or this,
you know, particular piece of software has been updated. That's great news. And I can be the guy
and I can be the guy that steps into the office makes that stuff happen before anyone else gets
there and be like, Oh, yeah, these new things happen. I just put it into place. We're good.
Can I get mad on you for a moment? Can I just zoom out? Yeah, who else could do it? Right?
Reliably with a team behind it's doing fact checking editors. Like we have like three layers
right now. And we're not going to get it perfect because on a daily show, mistakes will happen.
Absolutely. I totally acknowledge that. But we have three layers of checking before it goes on
air. Something's happened recently. It's a great example of how it just really gets screwed up.
Manjaro announced that they're creating a corporation. Right. And if you get all of
your Linux news from YouTube right now, you would be under the impression that they launched
a nonprofit because the YouTubers are all copying each other and they're getting the details wrong.
And they're reporting that Manjaro has launched a nonprofit, which is not the case. Manjaro has
launched what is essentially in the US parlance, an LLC, and they are a very much for profit
corporation. And Phil, one of the co-founders of Manjaro came on Linux Unplugged. And I talked
with him specifically and he said, I want to make it really clear. We're a for profit company. We
want to launch like hardware partnerships and swag. Like we have all these ideas. And by the way,
if we're ever going to do a nonprofit, we have to do all of these business things first before we
can even apply as a nonprofit. But all of the YouTubers now are reporting it as a nonprofit.
I'm not saying we're going to we're going to screw things up all the time, but every now and then
something might slip through. But my goodness, if we if we don't have at least three layers of fact
checking on every single episode, plus we have a now deep network of direct contacts with people
that are involved in the news where we can get just direct information from them, we're in a
really good position. But additionally, the cost to do a daily podcast, I mean, it's got to be a
$80,000, $90,000, $100,000 a year venture, I would imagine. And so I don't know who else could
afford to do it. Yeah, it's definitely it takes a lot of time to do it. And like you said, if we
want to do it right, you can do it. You can have somebody who's just like jumping on Twitch or
whatever a live stream and they're just, you know, shucking and jiving and reading the headlines.
That's a thing that can happen for free. Oh, yeah. Well, and like you said, it's one of those things
when it comes to YouTube, there quite often is that echo chamber effect, where if one channel
does it, the next channel does it, the next channel does it. And so, you know, at some point,
you need to step back and I think reevaluate the way that the media you consume, the way that it's
created for you and what the intentions behind it are. Absolutely. And we're not, obviously, you
know, our anniversary with Linux Academy comes up tomorrow. They've been super cool. They've let us
do what we do. They've done this for the community. We don't even have to talk about them, but we do
because we believe in what they do. So that partnership is just wonderful to have and really
gives us this ability to have a team that can do shows like this and bring you content like this
reliably and hopefully as factual as it can be. I mean, obviously, we're all humans. The mistakes
will be made. It's just a matter of when, but we're going to really try and make an effort to
minimize those. And like Chris said, we're three layers deep on this thing. And we have the team
that we have together now. I feel like we have someone that's been in a little bit of every
different area in the Linux ecosystem and open source ecosystem. So if there's something I'm not
really familiar with, you can guarantee someone else on the team is. And so that makes for being
able to fact check within ourselves almost instant. Like, no, dude, you're wrong. Here's the
documentation as to why you're wrong. This is the real scenario. And then you combine that with a
very fortunate position after 13 plus years of doing this, we can just email a lot of individuals
and just say, hey, this is what the team's suspecting is the case. Can you say yay or nay to
this? And that combined with the news pipeline we already have for all of our existing shows,
it really all was just really a matter of putting it all together and having a fresh perspective on
it. I'm very excited about the future of Linux headlines, Linux headlines dot show. And I think
self hosted is going to be maybe one of our next biggest shows self hosted dot show. The first
episodes out September 12. And then the second episode with Wendell Wilson follows two weeks
after that. That's tomorrow. I wonder I wonder how Alex has taken this right now. I wonder if he's a
little nervous. He's pretty stoked. He's a little nervous. Yeah, he's traveling. You know, he so he
does the open shift stuff for his day job with Red Hat. And so he's traveling right now. He's
had a crisis. And he's, oh, man, I can't believe the first episode shipping while I'm traveling,
he said to me. But I think everyone's going to enjoy it. I think it's going to be great. I know
that I'm going to enjoy it. I'm friends with Alex before he was ever even considered to be a host
on the network. Yeah. Yeah, man. I really like the guy. He's a super smart guy. And it's like every
time I talk to him, he's like, dude, have you tried this? Have you looked into this? This is awesome.
You should check it out. All you need to know about Alex is he's got a great dog. And the man
knows how to drive. Yeah. He knows how to drive cheesy. All right. Should we get out of here?
All right. That's office hours, Chris. That's it. If you got a question for me, email me,
Chris at Jupiter broadcasting.com or at Chris Elias on the Twitter. And to answer your question,
I believe Wes had the question. My favorite cheese is sharp cheddar. A classic one, right?
It's a good one. Class. All right, girl. See you later. See ya.